meeting of the board, Central Texas
College. Miss Coley will lead us in word
of prayer and then our two gentlemen
will lead us in pledges to the flags.
Bow with me, please.
Heavenly Father, we consider it a
privilege to acknowledge your presence
in our lives. We ask that you take the
lead in everything that we do at this
meeting. that we always put students,
staff,
faculty, and the executive committee all
at the forefront of everything that we
do and every decision that we make. Lead
us and guide us and protect us, keep all
of our students safe from harm. And even
the staff, any of us that couldn't be
engaged in a an an uncomfortable
environment, keep us safe. Father, we
thank you for being able to address you
and to come before your throne to say
thank you for everything that you
provide. We love you, Lord, and most
importantly, you love us. These
blessings we ask and receive in your son
Jesus name. Amen. Amen.
Please follow me in pledge of
allegiance. I pledge allegiance to the
flag of the United States of America and
to the republic for which it stands, one
nation under God, indivisible, with
liberty and justice for all. Please
follow me in honoring the Texas flag.
Honor the Texas flag. I pledge
allegiance to thee, Texas. One state
under God, one indivisible.
First item of business is to approve the
minutes of the board meeting of February
25th. Is there a motion? I move that we
approve as published. Second.
Any questions,
comments, additions, corrections? All in
favor say I. I. Thank you. Next item is
opportunities for members of the public
to suggest topics to the board. uh
please uh come to the podium if you wish
to do so and I encourage you to honor
the three minute limit seeing none
hearing none we move on to the next
thing which is the chancellor's
report good afternoon everyone thank you
sir uh legislative update on the federal
level we continue to monitor the
administration's goal to close the US
department of education and so along
with other institutions across our
country our immediate concern is
obviously uh the continuation of federal
funding for our students. And so in a
letter dated March 14th, I'm not sure if
you're aware of it, Mr. James Burgaron,
the acting under secretary of the US
Department of Education, assured
education stakeholders that continuity
of operations for the federal student
aid, federal student aid, is both a
statutory and critical function of the
department. He also stated that the
current reduction in force efforts do
not impact employees working on core
functions of the free application for
federal student aid or student loan
servicing programs. And according to the
letter, funding administered by the
office of post-secary education for
community colleges and various other
programs would continue. The reduction
in force does not impact the critical
functions of the office of career,
technical and adult education which
admin administers the career and
technical education program uh required
by the Carl D. Perkins career and
technical education act. So we will
continue to monitor uh what's happening
there in Washington as it unfolds. But
that's the update on a state level. at
the state level. Uh as of March 14th,
last Friday, Friday before last, excuse
me, uh the dead which was the deadline
for filing bills with the 89 during the
89th Texas legislative session, excuse
me. A total of
8,898 bills and joint resolutions were
filed. That's about 1500 more than the
previous session. Uh so we can probably
expect lots of activity. Uh House Bill
500, I'll just highlight a couple of
bills. House Bill 500. Uh this bill
appropriates the full
$89,500,000 that the Texas Higher
Education Coordinating Board requested
for additional funding for public junior
colleges in the current bienium. So the
funding that was passed with the 88th
legislative session for the 2425 school
years, there's an additional uh funding
request. House Bill 2110 and its
companion bill, Senate Bill
1786, would make uh some technical
adjustments to the language of the
original of House Bill 8. Uh and so this
particular bill will also allow I had
previously talked to you all about a
bill that would allow transfer to
private and independent universities to
be included in the funding formula or
the funding outcomes, excuse me. Uh so
this bill, these two bills actually wrap
that up in in in the language as well.
Uh so we call they're calling it the
cleanup bill, you know, Senate Bill 2529
and its companion bill, House Bill 5303.
This is another one of the tax bills
that was filed uh by the deadline and it
increases the voting threshold required
for a governing body to adopt an advorum
tax rate exceeding the voter approved
rate or to issue issue general
obligation bonds requiring at least 60%
approval for bonds and 80% approval for
tax rate increases.
And then again the this what's specific
about this is a rate above the voter
approval rate. And that concludes my
update
questions comments.
Next item is to uh consider and approve
the February
2025 interim financial statement
investment report. Mr. President.
Okay. So on your first
page, your your main differences there
within your investments and your
accounts receivable. Your accounts
receivable difference there has probably
been cleared up by now. If I ever rerun
these again, the question came up a
while back about what's the difference
between a short and long-term
investment. And it's the maturity. If it
matures within a year, it's a short
term. If it's over a year, it's
considered longterm. Any anytime you see
some short or long-term line item on
there, that's usually the reason why.
That's easy. On your second page, uh
same differences as last month.
Uh next month, I'll try and get the
spring fast and dual credit numbers and
show you how that's affecting your
bottom line. So, your bottom line's
still pretty good. And as you know, come
May, May through August, we'll we'll
need a good bottom line because that's
when it starts to dry up.
uh your investments. Uh there were no
new or expired ones. At the very bottom
section at the far right, you see the
change in rates. Those are starting to
consistently come down now. Whereas
before you saw changes in short and
long, now they're short and long rates
are starting to consistently come down.
So we will see you will see a difference
at the end of the year in your uh
investment income line item because of
those rate decreases.
Is there a motion to approve question?
I'll second. Okay. All right.
Who made the motion? He did. He said he
had a question. I had a question. I
thought you made the motion. I don't
see. Okay. So right now, yes,
Mr. Pierce made the motion. Mrs. Coley
seconded.
There we go. Thank you. I I just I was
looking at the numbers. Uh the PEL
grants.
Um we're looking about 10 million. If if
something goes wrong at the PEL grant at
the federal level, how how would that
affect us? Uh as far as I'm cutting?
Yes. I haven't read where they are,
but I'm just saying what is our in
effect if if it is cut? Well, it would
it would it would affect your students
number one. I mean, they wouldn't be
able to receive the award and we
wouldn't be able to apply it to tuition
around about 10 million. I haven't I
haven't heard a number. Okay.
I haven't I haven't heard where they're
going to cut cut back. I understand. I
just I was just asking how would what
would be the impact if it if they did?
It'd probably be big. I mean, yeah, as
big as tail is to the to the
institution. Any other questions,
comments? I I don't think that it would
uh they would
um necessarily cut it. At least that's
the scuttlebutt as they say. But I think
that they could delay it and that would
cause us some difficulty. think that
yes, that could because the way it works
is we
uh we let the students register and then
we draw the funds down after after the
fact. So if they delayed it, yes, that
would that could cause I mean we would
record that we erode it and I'm assuming
that they would pay, but it it could be
like the uh the military system a year
or two ago where it it took them a while
to pay. Yes, Ernest. Was your question
about how much it would cost us if is
that what you is that where you're going
with that? I think he kind of he
answered the question and it was I was
just going to have some some framework.
Any questions? There's been a motion and
a second. All in favor say I.
Next item. Dr. Carter, you have
a motion for us about your travel
schedule. Yes, sir. As
uh as presented at the workshop earlier
this month, I've added three trips, the
Army War College for the National
Security Seminar, uh the tax summer
meeting and SACOC summer institute. So
at this time, I'm requesting your
approval for those trips. Okay. Anyone
have questions of the chancellor? Is
there a motion to approve request?
Motion approved. Second. Motion made and
seconded. All in favor say I. I. Thank
you. Next
item, Miss W.
The cutting machine sharp cut.
What did I skip?
Number seven.
Yes. Well, that's okay. I get one a week
because it's got Dr. Carr's name on it
also. That's what confused me. That's my
excuse. We'll get back to you. Dr. Talk
to us now. Okay. Document 444. During
the workshop, um I briefly discussed the
resolution that the Texas Association,
the Community College Association of
Texas Trustees is asking each governing
body to sign to uh express their support
for our legislative priorities during
this session. And so I'm seeking your
approval for a signature.
Questions about
that? Do you have to give them any money
to let us play?
No, ma'am.
I move that we give. There's a motion to
approve this resolution. Second. Second.
All in favor say I. I. Thank you all
very much. Now, Miss Wadd, come back.
Join us again.
Well, I'm Dr. Melissa Gonzalez. Last um
well, two weeks ago, Miss Waddle came
before you asking for your consideration
uh for the purchase of a Sharp Cut, I'm
sorry, a Sharp Cut Pro model format
flatbed cutting table for the graphics
and printing program. I am here for you
to say yes if you so desire.
Looking for your approval. Is everybody
in your department that happy about
I like to think so.
I don't just mean this this item just in
life. No, I I I like to think they are.
We Listen, I have two awesome teams. I
cannot say enough about the men and
women who work in industrial technology
and office technology. They make the
college and me look pretty okay.
So, I'm happy to represent um to ask for
what what it is they need. We discussed
this in the workshop last week and how
all that equipment works. Is there a
motion to approve? So, move. Second.
Motion been made and seconded. All in
favor say I. I. Thank you, ma'am.
Miss Havens, you want to talk to us
about elections?
doesn't want to, but
the first item is uh a list of the
election judge, Doris McCra, and the two
uh poll workers or alternate judges,
Dorothy McClendon and Carol Riley. He
will be supporting us in the Corell
County Congress and I bring this to your
approval. Is there a motion to approve
this request?
Motion to approve. Motion made second.
Any discussion, questions?
If we don't vote for it, we don't have
an election. So,
all in favor say I. I. Thank you. Next
item.
The next item is an order of election
that I'm have to bring back to uh the
board for clarification.
Um, in the original order, I had a
polling location here located on campus,
uh, for voters that that will be on the
base, three precincts that we share with
KISSD. Uh, due to due to a lot of
different factors working with Bell
County and the city of Ken and city of
Parker Heights, um, Bell County has
suggested that we close down uh, don't
don't have the polling location on
campus and those voters in those three
precincts will go to Copper Cove. And
then I also added the um time early
voting times uh for each location that
we'll have and they're in alignment with
the city of and rights which we have a
copy of. Yes. Questions. Have
those individuals in that precinct gone
to previously for other elections? No.
But we thought, you know, with the
number of voters out there, the least uh
amount of disruption to the voters would
be going there and to keep the integrity
of the election because the the polling
locations don't talk to each other.
There's no uh Bill County can't get
Corell County and and them to talk. So,
they thought this would be the best
option.
Other questions? Go. So,
u with that being said, are they going
to do the well are we going to advertise
in the Fort Cavazos Sentinel? Is that
what they call it still? The the
newspaper we have at Fort Kavazos. I
have to so that so that they would know.
I have to post the notice of election
that will list all the polling locations
and that's due in the paper uh by next
April 3rd, I believe. But I mean, is it
going to be in the the for Kavazo's
paper also besides the Colleen Daily
Herald?
No, I can check into that. I don't I
don't know that. I thought the Herald
controls that
I thought it was an independent news.
Yeah, it's a sub part.
Other questions? I don't think we've had
a motion. Is there a motion to approve
this request for revising the board
document 440? So move. Second. Motion
made and second. All in favor say I. I.
Thank
you. Item 11. Mr.
Gains. As he comes to speak to this one,
uh let me just for transparency and
clarification at the workshop. We went
into executive session to discuss this
particular item. The nature of its uh
security was significant that the board
felt we need to talk about it behind
closed doors and we did. And now Mr. Mr.
Gains brings it for a motion to approve.
Good afternoon. Good to see you all
today. Uh for the reasons we discussed
two weeks ago today, the administration
recommends going forward with the
purchase of SOFOS managed detection and
response complete for a 5-year term at a
cost
of1,75,762. The purchase will be made
through SHI government via TIPS contract
number 230105.
And if you do have any additional
questions, I will be more than happy to
answer
questions. Is there a motion right here?
Motion. Motion been made and seconded.
Please do.
James Weaver.
All in favor say I. Any oppose say no.
Thank you, sir.
Upcoming topics for agenda items from
board members. Uh Mr. represent
um if we could just get an update to
find out where we're at with the
semiconductor cuz they're moving pretty
fast and uh Taylor and other places that
are coming coming up up for the uh
they're building the factory. So we need
just I want us to be reactive not uh you
know proactive instead of reactive.
Thank you. Thanks J. No sir I have
nothing. Uh just one item uh a previous
request about our board documents for
the SAC
COC review. So we're on track for that.
I'd like to have us presented with
number one how many board documents are
we have to consider and then a plan to
consider a few of them every quarter
until we get it all done.
George schedule uh next month, April
15th will be our workshop and uh 22nd
will be our monthly board meeting.
Anything else for the purpose of our
role? Is there a motion to adjurnn? So
move. All in favor say I. I.